is everything you're going to need to
know about these astronauts coming home
and the challenges they're going to face
my name is John jawish I'm a doctor of
biomedical engineering and I have done
extensive work in bone density treatment
which is one of the key challenges that
those who leave the comfort of the
gravity field that the Earth provides
have to deal with when they return to
Earth they're going to notice the
problems that have been added to the
General physical challenges based on
pork digestion like gravity is required
for proper digestion so they've already
been suffering from compromised
digestion no doubt they will have had
some uh shrinkage of their stomach and
uh a digestive system just because it's
so difficult to digest food in a zero
gravity environment they're accustomed
to eating less and they're going to need
to eat more now that they're back on
Earth and can actually utilize that
nutrition they'll be lucky if they can
even get to maintenance calories their
their digestive system has been so
compromising they haven't been able to
eat a lot gravity is required to really
pull food through your digestive system
if it were me it would be an almost all
protein diet I would encourage nutrient
dense it would pretty much just be
butter and steak would be the
recommendation the the highest nutrient
dense foods and as much strength
exercise which would be relative to
their level of conditioning so day one
they're probably going to go to sleep
day two they're going to do very simple
stuff like body weight squats you know
sit to stands in a chair and they're
just standing up they haven't had to
balance themselves for a long time and
that's that's going to show and they're
going to feel that just getting on and
off the toilet is going to be hard
because it's that's like a squat and
they're weak so they'll have trouble
getting on and off of it but that's it
then on top of that because they have
not had mechanical loading going through
their muscular skeletal system they're
going to have a l Lo of bone density
that is noticed and a loss of muscle
mass that is noticed and they're going
to have to begin training to treat those
deficiencies very quickly because
they're they're frail at this point
it'll probably take them 6 months to a
year to recover their strength in bone
mass significant losses happen in zero
gravity regular weightlifting just not
that great what we need is a weight that
changes as we move so that it
accommodates our our strength curve
delivers a much more exhausting stimulus
therefore guaranteeing muscular growth
if they train correctly in the most
efficient manner within probably the
same amount of time that they were gone
if they dedicate that to training they
could restore all the damage that was
done by the zero gravity environment
they would need to be doing four days a
week because you do need some time to
recover between exercise stimuli
activities of daily living would
probably be challenging for most people
in this situ situation however you could
put astronauts in the same category as
Navy Seals in the amount of training and
discipline that they have so they're
well aware of what they signed up for
they know exactly what they need to do
and they're probably not even going to
complain about It ultimately I have
heard astronauts tell me that like the
weight of a pencil feels very strange in
their hand because everything they've
grabbed a hold of had no weight to it
for the last few months so just simple
activ seem either challenging or oddly
difficult or feel strange but again
these are NASA astronauts they're ready
for this when astronauts are recruited
they pick the ones who they know have
the mental fortitude to handle being
stranded in space for a few months these
individuals they're problem solvers they
don't panic they think their way through
everything now the chances of one of
them having a a mental or emotional
breakdown is still significant because
it's very difficult what they went
through but they are so highly trained
that it's rare where any of them have
any mental breakdown or or just in
distress this is something NASA has done
exceptionally well they really know how
to pick the people and then they train
them so that they don't ever self-
sabotage because in a situation like
that you are Your Own Worst Enemy you
are the one who's going to do something
in a panic that might be a mistake and
they're training not to to do that they
think everything through radiation is an
issue our atmosphere blocks a
significant portion of the radiation
that is apparent in uh just the part of
outer space that is very close to Earth
so more exposure than you would get in a
couple of x-rays at the dentist but the
proximity to the sun tends to be where
the real radiation concerns are so
they're not going to be like damaged for
life because of radiation exposure
there's such high anxiety in space like
are we going to even make it home once
they get home it's just kind of a
collapse you're fighting to stay alive
one day and then the next day you don't
even know your purpose it's depressing I
mean ironically it's like your life has
been saved you're back here on Earth but
they always feel that way cuz they're
fighting for their life one day and uh
that hurts